Arithmetic, Variable Assignments and Naming Rules

In this lesson we are going to learn how to do basic arithmetic and variable assignments and the naming rules that come with variable declarations in Python. The video lecture link is given below.

Note: In the video lecture, I am using a special version of the Python shell knowns bPython. You will be opening up your IDLE program on your personal computer. There are visual differences, but not substantive differences concerning content of the lesson.

For more on bPython if you want to investigate it on your own and at your own risk, go ahead and check out this link: https://bpython-interpreter.org/

Lesson Objectives

The student will know how to perform basic arithmetic calculations in the Python shell.
Goal: The student will know how to independently perform an arithmetic calculation using error free Python syntax in the Python shell without any assistance.
Activities:
Read the reading assignment
Watch the video lecture
Think about the Lesson Questions
Read through and test the Examples given on your own.
Complete the given computer lab
Complete the given challenge problems
Success Criteria: The student can successfully perform any arithmetic operation in the Python shell using +, -, x, /, and exponentiation on their own without any outside assitance.
The student will know how to declare a Python variable following the naming conventions and rules (given in PEP 8)
Goal: The student will follow the given resources to learn how to create their own Python variables following the naming conventions and rules given in PEP 8
Activities:
Read the reading assignment
Watch the video lecture
Think about the Lesson Questions
Read through and test the Examples given on your own.
Complete the given computer lab
Complete the given challenge problems
Success Criteria: The student will know how to declare a Python variable using the naming conventions and rules defined in PEP 8 and run their Python code with no syntax errors.
Opening Meditation

Introductory thoughts
Your Heavenly Father has given you a name. It is directly from Him. Don't believe me? Read Revelation 2:17. This name is personal. So personal that only you and your God will know it.
In Python it is important to name your variables correctly. The name that believers receive from their God is perfectly correct and a wonderful sign of the personal care He has for us.
Devotional Link: God has planned your glory
Reading Assignment

Python with a Worldview by John C. Partridge - 1st Edition

Textbook - Chapter 1 - Lesson 1: Variables and Data Types, pages XX - XX

Reading Goals:

✅ The student will learn how to declare variable assignments in Python
✅ The student will become aware about PEP documentation
✅ The student will learn the rules of naming a variable in Python
✅ The student will learn the naming conventions for variables in Python
✅ The student will learn about Syntax and Name errors, why and how they are generated.
▶ Video Lecture

Arithmetic, Variable Naming Rules and Conventions
Lesson Questions

Why did the creators of Python establish the rule that a variable must not begin with a number?
What reason or reasons would there be for not allowing a Python variable to contain a special character, like #, or @, etc.. ?
Why are not spaces allowed in a variable name?
Examples

Getting Ready: Here are some examples that make us think. This section is like another warm up session before we take the computer lab.

Example 1:

Example 2:

Example 3:

Example 4:

Computer Lab

In this hands-on lab, you will apply what you've learned by completing a series of interactive tasks directly in the Python Shell. Work through each exercise step by step. Read through the instructions carefully and make sure you understand each step. If you find something confusion or puzzling, or if you think you have discovered a typo or mistake. Contact your instructor!

Computer lab:

Challenge Problems

Now it is time to put your Python Shell skills to the test with these slightly more advanced, open-ended challenges. Work through each problem in the interactive REPL, experiment freely, and record your final session output.

Challenge Problems:

Solutions to Challenge Problems

The final link below is the complete, working solutions to the challenge problems. Review them only after attempting the challenges yourself.

Solutions Key: